LINEAR REGRESSION
In the most simple words, Linear Regression is the supervised Machine Learning model
in which the model finds the best fit linear line between the independent and dependent variable 
i.e it finds the linear relationship between the dependent and independent variable.



LOGISTIC REGRESSION
What is logistic regression? Logistic regression is an example of supervised learning. It is used
to calculate or predict the probability of a binary (yes/no) event occurring. An example of logistic regression could be 
applying machine learning to determine if a person is likely to be infected with COVID-19 or not.


CONFUSION MATRIX

TP FP
FN TN

Accuracy (all correct / all) = TP + TN / TP + TN + FP + FN
Misclassification (all incorrect / all) = FP + FN / TP + TN + FP + FN
Precision (true positives / predicted positives) = TP / TP + FP
Sensitivity aka Recall (true positives / all actual positives) = TP / TP + FN
Specificity (true negatives / all actual negatives) =TN / TN + FP



NAIVE BAYES
Naive Bayes is a classification algorithm for binary (two-class) and multi-class classification problems. 
The technique is easiest to understand when described using binary or categorical input values.

It is called naive Bayes or idiot Bayes because the calculation of the probabilities for each hypothesis 
are simplified to make their calculation tractable. Rather than attempting to calculate the values of each
attribute value P(d1, d2, d3|h), they are assumed to be conditionally independent given the target value 
and calculated as P(d1|h) * P(d2|H) and so on.

This is a very strong assumption that is most unlikely in real data, i.e. that the attributes do not interact.
Nevertheless, the approach performs surprisingly well on data where this assumption does not hold.




NLP
TOKENIZATION
Tokenization is breaking the raw text into small chunks. Tokenization breaks the raw text into words, 
sentences called tokens. These tokens help in understanding the context or developing the model for the NLP. 
The tokenization helps in interpreting the meaning of the text by analyzing the sequence of the words.

POS tagging
What is Part-of-speech (POS) tagging ? It is a process of converting a sentence to forms – list of words,
list of tuples (where each tuple is having a form (word, tag)). 
The tag in case of is a part-of-speech tag, and signifies whether the word is a noun, adjective, verb, and so on.

STOP WORDS REMOVAL
Stop word removal is one of the most commonly used preprocessing steps across different NLP applications.
The idea is simply removing the words that occur commonly across all the documents in the corpus. 
Typically, articles and pronouns are generally classified as stop words.

STEMMING
Stemming is the process of reducing a word to its word stem that affixes to suffixes and prefixes or to the roots of words known as a lemma.
Stemming is important in natural language understanding (NLU) and natural language processing (NLP).
ex- stem of the words eating, eat, eaten = eat

LEMMETIZATION
Lemmatization usually refers to doing things properly with the use of a 
vocabulary and morphological analysis of words, normally aiming to remove 
inflectional endings only and to return the base or dictionary form of a word, which is known as the lemma .
example - runs, running, ran are all forms of the word run, therefore run is the lemma of all these words.

INVERSE DOC FREQUENCY
The inverse document frequency is a measure of whether a term is common or rare in a given document corpus. 
It is obtained by dividing the total number of documents by the number of documents containing the term in the corpus.

